# 70 Years
#### Happy 70th Birthday Dad

*<div class="article-meta-data"> by <span class="article-meta-author" itemprop="author">Kyle Finley</span> Published: <time itemprop="pubdate" datetime="4/21/2023">Friday, April 21, 2023</time></div>*

---

Yesterday would have been my father's 70th birthday. Unfortunately he passed away unexpectedly on June 26th last year. I wanted to write this yesterday but I both couldn't bring myself to do it and also kept myself too busy to have the time. I don't even know what to write really because every time I think of writing I'm overwhelmed with emotions and the thought of where the writing may go due to the unfortunate realities of our relationship. At any rate I'm forcing myself to commit some thoughts to text so I'll do my best.

Every single year I can remember I spoke to my father on his birthday. He would make sure to call me and my brother on our birthdays as well. That's what makes days like this hard.

The last time I saw my father in person was in the fall of 2020. I tried to see him in early 2022 but he had Covid the only opportunity I had to see him. I voiced concern to my partner that I may never get to see him again after that because of his health. While I spoke to him almost every day via text and several times a week on the phone in the last few years our relationship was unfortunately very strained. The life he decided to live over 30 years ago with his wife caused the stress. Of course the pandemic made it difficult for us to see each other but the challenges it created pale in comparison to the "normal" my father was forced to live.

My Dad's wife refused to allow him to have anything resembling a healthy relationship with his children. She wouldn't allow him to see us without him having to lie to her about doing so or suffer being berated for it if he was honest with her. He'd lie to her and tell her he was going to work then drive an hour and a half the other direction to visit at the lake for half the day before driving 2 hours to work for one meeting then drive 30 minutes home... all so he could tell her he "went to work" that day. It was very normal for him to drive 30 miles to his office just so he could make a phone call using a calling card from his office phone so that she wouldn't see that he talked to me on his phone. She constantly checked his phone, computer, iPad, or anything she could to see who he was talking to. This went on for decades. He was forced to delete text messages, emails, photos, or any evidence of communication with his own children or suffer being berated and called "stupid" for talking to his children.

As he once told me in his words "It's God's will that I live in the hell that I do because of what I did to my family. It's my penitence." He told me these words while standing in the parking lot of one of the cheapest hotels in my hometown in the middle of the night after he had left the house due to the level of verbal abuse from his drunk wife. He said it was rare that it got so bad that he'd have to leave the house but this night she'd crossed the line. In this same conversation he told me how when he married this woman he "gave everything he could to her and her family with the expectation that she would do the same" for his. He said "Unfortunately, that never was the case." Maybe he realized this when she kicked a hole an upright bass in 1996 because I, and it, simply existed in her space....

I'm sure it wasn't that moment but it's a true fact that she destroyed an early Engelhardt upright bass by kicking a hole in it resulting in my father frantically trying to "fix it" while I was out of town. He got a local shop to patch it with what looked like you had literally rubbed shit all over the bass. Just a big dark brown rough painted on mess around the whole bottom side. Unbelievable yes, but this happened.

Anyway....

Unfortunately, my father lived the last 20+ years of his life in an emotionally and verbally abusive relationship at the hands of his wife. I (and other family members) witnessed the constant barrage of insults hurled his way from a (usually drunk) woman he chose to spend the rest of his life with. Her insult of choice was to call him "stupid" for just about anything he ever did. The abuse was never ending and relentless. His only escape was his office. He retired from his full-time job in January 2022 and took a part time job so he could try to fill his time without having to stay at home. He was honestly scared to death about what life would be like after retirement and was woefully unprepared (mentally, physically, emotionally, and financially [those that know him may find this last word shocking to hear... put simply that family drained him in every way possible. including money. If you know... you know.]).

It hurts me to say this but my father lived a very unhealthy life and put other people ahead of himself and his true family members. We miss him greatly but the life that he and his wife's abusive relationship caused our family is something I don't miss. I ask myself often would I trade having the abuse again if I could talk to my father... sadly the answer is yes I would. And the reason is because while the abuse may have stopped in one way, it was never ending in nature, and the impact it caused, is in many ways, everlasting.

It's been almost 10 months since I last heard from my Dad. He passed in his sleep, on vacation, on his Daddy's birthday (June 26th), while I was camping in a tent deep in the woods in southern Oregon. Before he went to bed he texted me to tell me about the hard time he had getting pizza delivered due to a storm and no internet. He had to go pick it up in person and the whole ordeal took 2 hours. I can only imagine the stress he was put under in this situation. I had sent him a picture of our campsite and he said "That looks great!" I wish I could have talked to him that night but he wasn't allowed to answer calls from his children that week. Including on Father's Day.. the only father's day I can ever remember not talking to him. It hurt me then and I knew he wasn't going to make it home from his vacation. I tried to push that thought away because there was just nothing I could do that would have stopped the inevitable.

This year for my Dad's birthday I needed to keep myself busy and wanted to do the thing I knew he would love for me to do most. Play music. This week was hard and I was able to fill it with a lot of music so it helped. Sunday I played in the Golden Gate park then jammed with some new friends playing bluegrass in the backyard. Wednesday night I hosted the Jazz Jam at Lucky Horseshoe and opened up by playing a short set with my friends Daisy, Eli, and Steve A., and yesterday I played music in the park with Daisy & Eli then played a restaurant jazz gig at a fancy spot in downtown SF. I used to share my Apple Watch fitness tracking goals with my Dad and he'd comment on them. Yesterday I blew past the goals with  1,233/500 Cal for Move, 145/30 for Exercise, and 18/6 hrs for Stand. I just needed to keep moving...

Happy Birthday Dad! We miss you. I'll have a margarita for you when I get to the lake on Saturday.
-Kyle

