# 5 Days Kitesurfing in St. Lucia

#### Journal entry after 5 Amazing days of kiteboarding and hanging out with new friends in St. Lucia at The Reef.

_<div class="article-meta-data"> by <span class="article-meta-author" itemprop="author">Kyle Finley</span> Published: <time itemprop="pubdate" datetime="4/27/2008 5:00:00 AM">Sunday, April 27, 2008</time></div>_

---

I'm 5 days into my trip here on St. Lucia and so far it's been great. It's a slower pace down here but there has been a bit going on since my last post.

Big news for today is that it is Peter and Lisanne's last day on the Island. :( They are the couple from Holland that have been staying here at the Reef with me. They've been on the island for 2 weeks or so and it's time for them to head back to the "real world." Peter came down here to windsurf but because the wind has been lighter than he would like for windsurfing he decided to pick up kiteboarding earlier this week. He's been doing really well and yesterday looked really good out there. He's even starting to try to jump! (on purpose even). Lisanne was going to try to learn to windsurf here but contrary to the info on the websites the bay is not the best for learning. The water is a bit choppier than you'd like to learn on. But I think she's enjoyed her time relaxing on the beach and watching Peter out on the water. We did get her on the trainer kite the other day and she really enjoyed that. She was even trying to jump with the trainer within 5 min of flying it! I showed them both some snowkiting videos last night and they are both really interested in trying that. I found a great new video of Chasta and another guy out in the backcountry somewhere. Check it out here, it's an awesome video showing freeriding in the mountains with the kite.

So the winds here are consistently better in the mornings. I know it sounds amazing but I've been waking up at 7 every day with the plan to be on the water as early as possible. The other day I was on the water and riding at 8 am! I rode for about an hour then came in for breakfast. Not a bad way to start the day I have to say. :) The winds die out usually in the afternoon starting around 11. Which is probably best because the sun is pretty brutal here. I've been doing ok with the sunburn but my toes got totally toasted the first day and have a few blisters. I'm going to have to nurse them to keep from having issues. I've started wearing my surf booties. I look like a dork but they keep my feet totally protected from the sun. The only problem is the sand inside them is pretty irritating on the sunburn. I think I'll survive though. hah.

So as for the riding it's been pretty good. Yesterday was the best day so far. We had some storms come through the Caribbean that caused the wind to turn more southeast, which is almost straight onshore wind. With the choppy water that makes it hard to get away from the beach and really have fun but it's still ok. The winds are supposed to move back east starting today. I'm still having a few issues transitioning back to the water from the snow. I'm totally used to flat conditions instead of all the choppy water. I have managed to land a few front rolls on the water though. Yesterday I got some really high ones but kept sliding out on the landings. I know what I'm doing wrong but just still can't get it right. Today my goal is to land a few solid front rolls and a back roll. I'm also going to try a front roll with a grab. :)

Also this week we had another visitor, Eric, from Canada. He's on a 3 week leave from work and just chilling out for a bit. He came down here for the windsurfing but since the wind is not as good as those guys would like he decided to hop a plane to Bonaire for the rest of his trip. The winds look much better there so I think he'll find what he wants. He's also leaving today so we had our last dinner and drinks last night. We also got him on the trainer kite the other day. I'm glad I brought the trainer with me. I always say don't leave home without it and that's holding up here. It's fun to just play around with when the winds are too light to ride. And also to get someone introduced to flying a bigger kite.

There have been a few people taking lessons from the local instructor Frank. Heather, the girl from Connecticut, was back yesterday for the second half of her lesson. She wasn't able to get on the water the first day so it was time to learn the best part of kiteboarding! Body Dragging!! hah. Basically you let the kite pull you around in the water. I'm sure you can imagine you get a few full faces of saltwater along the way. Unfortunately it's a necessary skill to learn. When you lose your board out on the water you have to be able to drag yourself upwind to get to your board. Also you learn how to relaunch the kite when you crash it. She did really well for her first time out on the water and said she had a blast. Unfortunately she wasn't able to get out on the water with the board yet but she still said it was a lot of fun just flying the kite. Not sure if she's hooked yet but I think she'll definitely try it again.

The evenings have been nice here so far but last night we learned about the only thing that sucks about the Reef right now. Every saturday there is a dance party two buildings over from the Reef. It's a locals party that starts around 10 or 11 and is supposed to go until 2. Unfortunately though the guy that runs it pays off the police and they usually go until 4 or 5. We were talking with the Dutch lady that runs the place and she said she tried to keep him from getting his hands on the building, which used to be another windsurf center, but she couldn't because he is a powerful guy around here. He also runs a hotel around the corner in town. I was a little worried about sleeping but luckily I have my noise canceling headphones with me so I just put them in and turned on some Postal Service and was able to get to sleep. I woke up a few times when the album would finish but I just turned it back on and would get back to sleep. So not so bad.

Only other interesting thing to happen this week was the turtle that floated up on the beach. Two days ago a huge leatherhead turtle washed up. It was dead but pretty fresh. It was missing everything except one foot but the shell was pretty impressive. I got a few pictures of it so check out the photos section to see. Some locals ended up dragging it up the beach a little and just burying it in the sand. I head that some people dug it up though and took it away. Which of course is illegal but apparently very common here.

Well, I'm going to end this one here for now. It is getting later and I need to get breakfast and get on the water. :)

Cheers,<br>
Kyle
