# Kite the Coast - Great Conditions in Gulfport, MS : May 2008

#### Journal Entry from Gulfport MS. Perfect Sun, Sand, and Side-Shore wind conditions for kitesurfing the Mississippi Coast. Great locals too!

_<div class="article-meta-data"> by <span class="article-meta-author" itemprop="author">Kyle Finley</span> Published: <time itemprop="pubdate" datetime="5/20/2008 5:00:00 AM">Tuesday, May 20, 2008</time></div>_

---

Tuesday I woke up rested and saw the wind was supposed to be up to 20 blowing South Southwest. Perfect side-shore conditions for the MS coast. The Cat5Kiteboarding.com site had a few areas listed for MS so I was hoping I would find some riders this day. With the wind forecasted to be good there had to be some guys out. I grabbed some breakfast and headed out to Gulfport.

In Gulfport Hwy 90 runs along the beach. Once I got there I cruised down to Bay St. Louis and then back up almost to Biloxi. The beach is wide open and sandy all along the drive. There is still lots of construction going on because of Katrina and it was nuts to see all the houses gone. I later was talking to a kid that talk me before Katrina there were huge 2 story houses every 300 feet along the coast. now there was one ever mile or so. Basically everything was gone. Some were rebuilt and it looked like some made it through the storm but you could tell they got hit hard. A lot of the beach had a boardwalk that ran along the road and in most spots all that was left was the foundation and crossbeams that held the walk. And this shit was build tough so I can't imagine what it was like when the storm hit.

After driving around for about an hour I was disappointed I had not seen any kites in the air. It was still early but I thought someone would be out. I decided what the hell I'd just pick a spot and get out there. I picked a spot near some people laying out on the beach. There was a better spot down the road but it was by a resort and had jet skis and shit out there. I didn't want idiots around on the water near me so no way I was doing that. The wind was blowing upper teens and I got one reading of 20 so I was hoping my 9m would be enough. I walked down the beach a bit and started pumping. Right as I got my kite pumped up a guy walks up and says hey. I asked if he was a rider and he said yeah. Sweet! He said no one was out yet but that people were coming soon. The guys name was Thomas and he said he was from New Orleans. We talked about the Cat5Kiteboarding site a little and he said he usually just makes the drive over to Gulfport if it's good. He said there is a good group of guys that ride there and since it's only 2 hours it's worth it. He said the place people usually ride was right down the beach a bit so I should just head down there. I was cool with that so I rolled up my kite and followed him down.

The "official" kite spot in Gulfport is just off Kelly Ave. It's a cross street on Hwy 90. Once we rolled up not 5 min later another kiter pulls up. Then a few after that another rolls up. Thomas had said usually all you have to do is put a kite up and people will start showing up. Within 30 min of getting my gear out on the beach there were 5 kiters there. He wasn't joking and I was stoked to see some local guys!

Since I had my struts already inflated all i had to do was pump the leading edge and get out there. This was my 9m so doesn't take long. Gotta love pumping up small kites for that! Once I got the kite in the air it had some pull to it so I figured I would have enough to ride. Thomas was pumping a 17m and one of the other guys, Ryan, was pumping a 12m. Ryan is a bit smaller than me, about 120, so I was worried I wouldn't have the pull to ride. All that worry went away as soon as I hit the water. I was Shocked to find out that my 9m had such low end. I had heard the 08 Rebels had more low end than the 07s but usually they just say that right? I was the first one out on the water and was easily throwing big jumps. I could have used a little more wind but I was making it work without much effort.

The spot where the guys ride is pretty damn good. The sand is great. Huge open beach and not really trashy. The water is shallow for a ways out but not too shallow. Mostly thigh to waist and then chest a few hundred yards out. The bottom is mostly sandy but I did notice some guys wearing booties. There are some pylons that mark deep water spots but other than that no obstacles to worry about.

The wind was holding solid at upper teens and into the low 20s. I was still amazed the 9m was enough. It wasn't only enough to ride I was going upwind just as good as the kid on the 12m and throwing jumps higher than anyone else on the water at that point. After riding for a while we all headed in for a break. Funny how when everyone gets to the beach they just get out there fast and barely even say hey to each other. It's the south so everyone is super friendly so once we got back on shore I introduced myself to the rest of the guys and told them about the trip I'm doing. Everyone thought it was awesome, which of course it is :). Most the guys were from around Gulfport but a few from a little further away. Turns out there are two guys with shops in town but unfortunately they are still running out of their house post Katrina. I'm just glad they are still about to make it. The spot is a great place to ride so they need some local shops to help people get into it.

Thomas was cool enough to offer up sandwiches to the guys and we all grabbed something to drink and then it was time to get back out there. The wind was holding strong and was predicted to do so all day. The younger kid Ryan was saying he and another guy were thinking of doing a downwinder to Biloxi. I told him if they do it I would be totally down for joining in. It wouldn't be super far, probably 5 mils, but still that would rock. Unfortunately it never happened though because the other guy had stuff to do later that day and couldn't ride that long. Oh well, I'll get a proper downwinder in sometime on this trip. To make up for it I tacked up the beach about a mile and tit a bunch of jumps and carving back down to the launch later in the day. The wind was getting lighter but it was still fun.

The wind blew pretty much all day. Some more guys showed up later in the afternoon and at one point we had over 10 kites up and on the water. There were anything from 11s to 17s out there. And then me on my 9m! not a lot of the guys were jumping and only a few were doing rolls. Considering I was on such a small kite I was pretty happy with myself. :) I did get a few really tweaked out front rolls with grabs and managed to keep my kite high and not drive it into the water like on Friday when I busted my 12m. When you get it right and you're upside down with your body torqued it feel pretty damn cool. I practiced my back rolls a little more but still having problems with them. Not sure what's up. I need someone to watch me and tell me what I'm doing wrong.

For the day I got 3 solid sessions in and decided to call it. Basically got a sunset session which was nice. The tide started to roll out and the water got super shallow. Also there was a little muddiness going on here and there which I hadn't found earlier in the day. After talking to the local guys and having a few more beers it was time to move on. I was thinking I'd have to drive to Gulf Shores, AL to find a campground but I managed to find one right up the road from the kite area. The place was called Southern Comfort and had lots of RVs and a few tents up. The guy running it, Jimmy Don (I'm not lying, that's his name), was happy to offer me a spot and even cut me a deal since I wasn't going to use power.

I put the tent up and headed to the store to get some food. i hadn't restocked the cooler since staying in New Orleans. I decided to do up some fish for the night and have to say it was damn good. Smallest pack of fish I could find was 3 fillets so I got that. Did two as lemon pepper and one with lots of cyan pepper and other spices. Both ended up damn good. Combined that with broccoli, corn on the cob, and rice. Needless to say by the time I finished dinner I was stuffed and ready to pass out.

Unfortunately right before I finished cooking dinner the neighboring tent had a bit of an argument and someone called the cops. Turns out most the people staying here are pretty permanent. I'm guessing people that are down on their luck from the storm. The cops came by and cleared everything up so no real big deal. Although they were still arguing the next morning about shit. I just packed my stuff and got out.

Next is Alabama. Hopefully the wind is blowing!

Cheers,
Kyle
