# Kite the Coast - Charleston, SC : May 31 to June 2nd, 2008
### Journal Entry: South Carolina 2008 road trip around the Gulf of Mexico and up the Eastern Coast. Kiteboarding, Camping, Couchsurfing, & new friends.

*<div class="article-meta-data"> by <span class="article-meta-author" itemprop="author"><a href="https://twitter.com/kfinley" target="_blank" title="kfinley on Twitter">Kyle Finley</a></span> Published: <time itemprop="pubdate" datetime="6/2/2008 5:00:00 AM">Monday, June 2, 2008</time></div>*

---

I'm still trying to catch up on my posts so this will be a combined one. I've been kitesurfing in Charleston, SC for a few days. I rolled in from Tybee Island, GA and went straight to the beach when I got there. Of course that is after having BBQ as soon as I passed a good looking BBQ joint. :)

I had checked out KiteBeaches.com and knew the good spot was north of town on Sullivan's Island or the Isle of Palms. When I got tot he area I saw kites up on the north side of Breech Inlet which is the Isle of Palms area and headed over there. So a little info on this spot. Basically the Isles of Palms is a pretty high dollar beach community. The homes are all big and pricy. I asked a guy grilling out in his backyard what houses in the neighborhood run and he said basically 1 to 3 Mil. So for the South that's pretty damn expensive.

What I thought was really interesting about the whole place was that the beach was public. Even with the big expensive houses the people were cool enough to not only let you walk paths next to their house out to the beach but also didn't care if you parked in front of their houses. I asked a guy when I pulled up how parking worked and he said just make sure your tires are off the road and your set. So yeah basically you just park literally in peoples yards. This immediately gave me a good feeling about the place. I walked out to the beach and there were a number of kites up. The wind was blowing solid enough for my 9m so I was stoked. I got out on the water and rode for the rest of the day. I was the last one off the water at our spot so that made me feel pretty good.

When I came off the water I met some of the other kiters. Including Adam from the local shop. I also found out the guys on the Nobile tour were going to be in town the next day for a demo of the new gear. I thought that was funny since I had been emailing Toby a few days before. I hoped he would be with the group so I could see him again. Such a cool guy.

For staying in Charleston I had found a place through CouchSurfing.com. I had talked to the girl I planned to stay with, Melissa, coming into town and had planned on just meeting up after I left the beach. Luckily I found some showers and was able to get cleaned up at the beach before meeting up with them. Unbeknownst to me there was a festival in town and that night a cuban band was playing in the town square. After getting cleaned up I met up with Melissa, her boyfriend Drew, and a few of her friends. We grabbed some dinner and headed back to the Cuban band. The festival was pretty cool. Apparently that whole week there was lots of Art and Music stuff going on in town. Since the band was Cuban there was lots of dancing going on by the stage. There was a huge dance floor put out for people to dance on. I was unaware but Melissa was a kick ass dancer. Drew on the other hand was not. Fortunately he was cool with other guys dancing with his girlfriend. Melissa danced with this one Spanish dude who had on proper dance shoots and had all the right to be in them. They tore up the floor and actually started to draw a crowd watching them. I decided right then I have to learn how to dance better. hah. When I get back to Boston I'm going to find someone to hit up some dance lessons with. I know there are bars that have nights with free lessons so I should get in on that.

After the band finished up we all headed out. Melissa and one of her friends apparently had talked about my sleeping situation and since we were downtown and Melissa lived kind of far out her friend Kerranna offered to let me crash at her place. She lived right downtown and was cool with me staying at her place. I was fine with that so all worked out well. That is other than me scaring the shit out of her roommate the next morning. hah. She had just moved in with some chicks for the summer and warned me one of the roommates was around and might come out in the morning. It was pretty funny and I hope it didn't cause issues for Kerranna and her new roommates.

The next day I headed to the Catch Some Air shop to catch the Nobile guys when they showed up. They were flying in from Hatteras on a private plane and were running late. They finally showed up around noon. Not a big deal though because the wind was pretty light until around 1 o'clock. Charleston, as well as a lot of the spots on the east coast, is blessed with an afternoon thermal wind (what people typically call an afternoon sea breeze). Adam said the way it works is basically starting in April or May (I don't remember which) it kicks in at 1 o'clock. Each month after that it moves back an hour or so until the winds kick back up in the fall. Pretty cool. Wish we got that shit up in the Boston area.

Once the Nobile guys showed up we all headed to the beach. Luckily the wind had picked up enough for riding. It was still a little light but solid enough for my 12m. Unfortunately the Nobile guys had to fly back out at 3 o'clock so they weren't riding. Toby was still nursing a rib injury anyways so he probably wouldn't have been on the water.

When i got to the beach Melissa and her friends showed up to meet me. They brought along another guy to check out the trainer kite. I got Drew and him flying it pretty quick and they had a blast. The wind was plenty strong and the girls were a little worried about it so they didn't try it out. Still they just laid around and enjoyed the sun and cool breeze.

After messing with the trainer for a while I was ready to get on the water. I got out and started riding and the wind was solid. Thermal winds are great. I so wish Boston had a thermal. After riding for a bit I came in and was talking to the guys around. Melissa and her friends decided they were going to split so I told them I'd try to catch up with them later. While talking to the guys on the beach one of them looked super familiar. We realized not only did we know each other but he was there the first time I flew a trainer kite. It was Adam from Powerline sports a few years back. He had worked for Andrew for a summer while in college. Turns out he just got stationed in Charleston with the Air Force. How random right? Unfortunately the wind was a littler liter than Adam wanted so I didn't get to see him ride. By the time I came back off the water Adam had split. I rode until the end of the day and had a blast. The spot at Charleston is pretty good. There are some flat water spots created by sandbars when the tide is right. And the waves are great for using as kickers for jumps. With the wind blowing sideshore from the right it's perfect for me. I'm goofy foot so my dominant tack and preferred jumping direction is going right out away from the shore. Which is perfect for sending off the waves. I'm still not used to it but I'm getting better at timing it just right.

After finishing up I talked with a guy on the beach for a bit and he offered me a beer. He had Yuengling so I was super happy with that. :) I sat on the beach for a bit after he split and just enjoyed the waves and sun. I was totally spent from 4 solid days of riding in a row. I decided I would check out the Hampton Inn downtown I had seen the night before, if it was not bad on points I decided I would do that for the night. As awesome as Melissa and her friends were at making sure I had a place to crash I just kind of wanted a bed and a nice long shower. I called the Diamond desk and found out the hotel wasn't bad, only 20,000 points for a night. I decided it was totally worth it since I wanted to check out downtown the next day anyways.

I got to the hotel and after getting cleaned up headed out for some food. I luckily got to a great BBQ place right before they stopped serving. I got a pulled pork sandwich with a side of mac & cheese and a baked potato. Holy Crap it was good. The tossed me some cheese biscuits while I was waiting and they were damn good too. After dinner I checked out some of the bars and then got a good nights sleep.

The next day the wind was a little light and I had already decided to just bum around town anyways. I walked around the downtown area for a while just checking things out. It's a lot more commercialized than I thought it would be. Basically it was like a lighter version of Newbury street in Boston. Lots name brand shops in older buildings. I sopped off for lunch at a place called the Mellow Mushroom. Really good fire baked pizza and there was internet to grab while I was there. :)

After lunch I walked to the local market area. It reminded me of a hometown fair setup, lots of booths with random crap for sale. I grabbed a bead necklace and a Chucktown sticker (I've since lost the necklace in the ocean, that's 2 for the trip. hah). I scoped out some spots for dinner options and got in touch with my HR people at work to figure out my insurance situation. Since I extended my trip I needed to switch to COBRA so i would be covered for health insurance. Unfortunately my office guy didn't get me the info I needed until my coverage ran out at the end of the month. Turns out all i needed to do was go to a website, print out a form, and send a check. Why that took a month to tell me I have no idea. I ended up getting the info done and out the mail that day.

After dealing with all that I met up with Melissa's friend Kerranna for a coffee. After that I decided to hit some dinner. i called up Melissa to see if I could crash at her place that night. She lives in North Charleston which was cool with me because I needed to go to the Jeep dealer anyways. They offered to cook me dinner which was cool but I was looking forward to some fish and oysters so I told them not to worry about it. I ended up grabbing some food at one of the more touristy looking places by the Market area but the food was great. I was happy to find out they had Apalachicola Oysters. I got a half dozen oysters, a shrimp cocktail, and broiled snapper. Toss in a Yuengling and that's a great dinner in my opinion. :)

After dinner I headed to Melissa's place. After getting lost a little bit I found their place. There I met Melissa's cat and her pig. Yeah that's right, she has a pig. She lives on the back porch and in the yard and is a full on big ass pig. Melissa said she's had her like 8 years or something. How crazy. After hanging out for a bit we all hit the sack.

The next morning I headed back to the beach for a bit to see if the wind was up. Unfortunately not much going on. I wasn't upset about it though. That afternoon I packed up and headed north toward Myrtle Beach. I gave my uncle a call to let him know I'd be getting there about 7 o'clock and he said that worked perfect for them. He said we'd just met at his place and grill up some grub.

Kyle
