# Kite the Coast - Chasing Wind in Fort Walton, FL : May 2008
#### Journal Entry from the Florida Panhandle. Chasing wind and driving on closed beach roads with the guys from XLKites in Fort Walton, FL.

*<div class="article-meta-data"> by <span class="article-meta-author" itemprop="author"><a href="https://twitter.com/kfinley" target="_blank" title="kfinley on Twitter">Kyle Finley</a></span> Published: <time itemprop="pubdate" datetime="5/22/2008 5:00:00 AM">Thursday, May 22, 2008</time></div>*

Thursday I drove out of Gulf Shores, AL headed for the Pensacola / Fort Walton area. The drive was super short so I got there by mid day. I decided to head on to Fort Walton and hit up XLKites to find out where a good spot would be to ride for the day. The wind was predicted to be light so I knew I would be on my 16m if anything at all.

When I got to the shop the XlKites Milk Truck was just pulling out. The guy working said he was headed out to do a lesson on the flat water side. He recommended I just head down there and meet up with them. The spot was just east of the shop toward Destin.

When i got to the flat water spot the wind was kind of dying. I met Cody who turns out is actually from Maine and knows the Powerline.com crew. He said he had been living in Fort Walton for a while and was about to move to Galveston, TX. He's 19 and has been kiting for a while. He's working as an instructor for XlKites and is going to be with the new shop they are opening in Galveston. Cool to meet someone that knows my local crew so far from home!

After his lesson kind of fizzled out we were talking and he said the wind should be better back west a bit in Navarre. We headed back to the shop so he could drop the milk truck and headed that way. The drive was about 20 miles back the direction I had come from but whatever. When we got there we were both disappointed to find there was basically no wind. The forecast was calling for the wind to switch from SW to SE at some point in the afternoon so we were just going to wait around for it. A buddy of his showed up and wanted to drive out further toward Pensacola to see if the wind was good. We headed down the 2 lane road that was still in the process of being repaired from a storm last year. It was kind of nuts because huge sections of the road had just been picked up and dropped sometimes 70 feet from it's original spot. you could just see this section of blacktop laying there with the center line still on it in the sand. Kind of nuts. The road eventually was closed so we drove as far as we could. Unfortunately no wind there either.

The guys were super interested in my groundboard so we decided to try to mess around with it. They said there was some hard pack sand further down the road a bit. I was doubtful but what else did I have to do right? We grabbed my Frenzy 10m, groundboard, and our harnesses and started walking. It was obvious the sand really wasn't going to get hard so I decided to nix that idea and just fly the Frenzy. The guys had never flown a foil kite that big before so at least there would be that.

We flew the Frenzy for about 5 min before a park ranger car comes driving up. A lady got out and we all just kind of stood there. She yelled for one of us to come over. The guys thought I was the best option. Not sure if it was because I've got almost 10 years on them or because I could legitimately act dumb about the situation but I figured worse thing she could do was ask us to pack up. I walked over and she was pretty cool about things. She just told us that we should stay away from the posted signs that say closed and the stakes in the ground. Turns out they don't have enough signs so the orange tipped wooden stakes were supposed to represent closed areas. I told her no problem and she was cool with us flying the kite.

After flying the kite for a bit we got bored. There wasn't even enough wind to get a good pull across the sand. We headed back to the parking lot and decided to split. On the way out I realized I forgot to get a bottle of sand so I stopped back by the Navarre beach we were at before. The guys had stopped back by there and were checking out the surf. On the drive back out I could tell the surf had picked up a little bit. Cody really wanted to surf with his buddy since he was about to split town so he convinced him to go get his board. The waves were actually pretty good. About head high and real glassy. If I had a surfboard I would have been out there in a heartbeat. Since I had no board and needed to get to the campground I decided to split. Kind of too bad, would have been cool to say I surfed the gulf. Another trip.

I got to the campground just before it closed, after kind of searching for it for a while. It was halfway between Fort Walton and Panama City at Grayton Beach. The Ranger was a nice guy and the campground was pretty damn cool. The layout was the coolest I've seen at any campground. The basic setup was a circle road with camp sites off each side. The bathrooms were in the middle of the circle and there were trails running through the undergrowth from each campsite and from the road. It was almost like a maze really. The undergrowth was the typical florida palms and fern stuff. I wish I knew what it was but I'm not much of a plant person. I put my tent up tucked back into the growth just before dark. I really wasn't worried about animals wondering around at this spot. The undergrowth was thick enough to barely see the next site over but I figured since there were so many people about that anything big wouldn't come up. Probably the only thing to worry about would be snakes.

After setting up the camp I looked back at the road and noticed the sun setting down a path that led to water. The view was great. I knew it was just an inland pool of water and not the open gulf but it looked great. I walked over to check it out and it was basically a large freshwater pond behind the beach sand dunes. It was the only official swimming area for the campground and had a sign warning "Watch out for Alligators." Which I thought was pretty awesome. Got a picture but not sure if it's going to turn out or not.

Once camp was all good I decided to head out for food. I had heard a few things on the radio and passed a few places that looked good so I knew there was plenty around. I ended up driving all the way back to Destin in search of a place I never found (Damn radio ad: 49 cent jumbo and 2 oysters). I couldn't find it so I stopped off at Landry's to see if they had crawfish. i doubted they did and sure enough they didn't. The bartender was like "We have crawfish tails.. You know like etouffe." Yeah, I'll let them keep their frozen southern California crawfish to themselves thank you very much. hah.

I decided to drive back to a place I had seen near the campground that was packed and offered up a few good looking specials on the sign. The restaurant was Emo's Grill just off of 98 on 30A. It was Thursday night and the special of the night was all you can eat crab legs for $25. As sweet of a deal as that is I couldn't go with crab legs when I was at the gulf. I sat down at the bar and started talking to the bartender who was hard at work shucking oysters. The place was packed and there was a guy playing acoustic guitar and singing, he was actually pretty damn good. I put in an order of oysters and the bartender warned me that I had about 6 dozen in front of me. I wasn't in a hurry so I told him no big deal. After watching him work for a while and talking I quickly realized he was probably one of the hardest working bartenders on the gulf coast that night. He was in charge of the bar and shucking oysters for the entire restaurant! I personally watched him shuck probably 12 dozen oysters while I was there. He said if they didn't hire someone to shuck oysters he was going to quit! hah. And honestly I don't blame him. You don't get tips for shucking oysters but you do lose tips for making drinks slow because you're shucking oysters. And no one likes their martini to taste like oyster juice right!?! All said and done he said he shucked just over 6 boxes that night. Each box has about 12 dozen in it. Yeah, that's around 900 individual oysters. I agree with him, that's a full time job on it's own!

Even though I had 5 dozen in front of me they came up pretty quick. And I have to say they were the best oysters I've ever had. I asked him where they were from because they were different than what I've been having. He said they were Apalachicola Oysters. And they were the best on the gulf. I have to agree. They aren't as big as the oysters you get from the Texas and Louisiana coast but they are much tastier. I had ordered a half dozen but he gave me a full dozen and later told me basically they don't have a half order in the system so a dozen is what you get. And at $4.99 a dozen I wasn't complaining one bit. Hell, I should have ordered 2 dozen! I'm going to have to get on the oysters back in Boston at the Oyster Bar and see what they are like when I get home. I'm curious where they get theirs from.

After the oysters I ordered the Shrimp Spectacular. I figure if you're on the Gulf you need to be eating the Shrimp right!? The plate came with Blackened, Grilled, and Fried Shrimp. Side of fries, coleslaw, and hush puppies. The shrimp were excellent. Fresh Gulf shrimp are the best. I'm going to have to start asking where the shrimp are from when I order in restaurants. I know a lot are coming from oversees and really they aren't as good and we need to support our local Gulf fisherman ya know?

After dinner I was delightfully full and headed back to the campsite for a good night sleep before heading out early in the morning for Gainesville and St. Petersburg.

Kyle
