# Kite the Coast - Arriving in Cape Hatteras, NC : June 2008
### Journal Entry from first day on Cape Hatteras, NC. Making my way onto the Outer Banks islands in North Carolina for 3 days of kiteboarding and camping.

*<div class="article-meta-data"> by <span class="article-meta-author" itemprop="author"><a href="https://twitter.com/kfinley" target="_blank" title="kfinley on Twitter">Kyle Finley</a></span> Published: <time itemprop="pubdate" datetime="6/10/2008 5:00:00 AM">Tuesday, June 10, 2008</time></div>*

---

Sunday afternoon I drove out of Wilmington headed for the Outer Banks of NC. For those that don't know the Outer Banks is one of the best spots for kiteboarding in the US. Google Maps said the trip would be almost 6 hours but this included 2 ferry rides so I suspected it would be longer. Before leaving Wilmington I had to grab some breakfast at this place I had driven by a few times. The place is Goody Goody Omelet House. Basically a classic hometown dinner. I got there at about 11 and all the tables were full and only 2 spots at the bar so I had a feeling it would be just what I was looking for. I didn't go with the omelet although it looked amazing instead I was craving some pancakes so I got a stack with a side of beacon. Good stuff.

I split town just after noon and had at least a 6 or 7 hour drive in front of me. I've come to realize my Jeep doesn't get good gas milage on the interstate at higher speeds so I took the highway the whole way. If I keep the speed around 55 and tuck in behind someone I can get almost 18 miles to the gallon! That sure as hell beats trying to push it to 70+ and only getting 12 mpg.

The drive was pretty easy to the Cedar Island. There I had to take the ferry to Ocracoke. I had about a 45 min wait for the ferry and then the ride took a little over an hour (Google said 20 min, nope). I met some nice folks from the DC area on the ferry ride. They were a middle aged couple traveling around a bit. They lived in NC but the guy had never been tot he Outer Banks before. I thought that was so crazy, why would you not come here if you lived near by. Even if you don't kiteboard the beaches are awesome and it's such a peaceful remote place. Once I got to Ocracoke I had a 15 mile drive to the Hatteras Ferry. That ferry was much shorter and I didn't have to wait long for it at all. On the ferry I met two girls from Missouri. They had a car load of stuff and had driven out from just south of St. Louis. They said they had been planning the trip for 4 years. I thought that was funny since my planning for most the coastal trip involved buying a road atlas and occasionally checking kitebeaches.com for spots to ride. hah.

I got off the Hatteras ferry and was starting to get concerned about where I was going to stay. It was getting close to 8 o'clock by this point. I had planned on staying near Frisco so I resisted the urge to stop at the first campground I saw. I was happy to see that there were lots of campgrounds around though. I didn't realize camping was so big on the Outer Banks. Once I got to Frisco I saw a sign for the campground and pulled in. I got there just before 8:30 and they closed up at 8:30 so I just made it. The ranger working the booth recommended I grab a spot on the backside of the grounds that is up on a ridge with a view of the water. I told him I wasn't picky so whatever would work. When I got to the site I was really impressed with the view. Basically from my tent I look out over the sand dunes and to the open Atlantic. Not bad at all for 20 bucks a night.

After dinner I sat and had a beer watching the dark sky and listening to the ocean. While I was sitting there i heard thunder in the distance. It was coming from the west over the sound. I watched the distant lightning for a bit and thought it was just a system passing offshore so I would be fine for the night. I had not put my rainfly on the tent because the view was so amazing and the temperature has been so hot lately. Just in case it did rain though I tossed a towel in my tent and had my rainfly out and ready. Sure enough about an hour or so after I got to sleep I woke up to raindrops hitting me. My tent has a mesh screen top so you can see the sky so the rain was basically coming right through. I quickly jumped up and started trying to get the rainfly on. The rain was coming down pretty hard. I was in my board shorts and took my shirt off so if i got real wet I could just dry off. I tossed the rainfly over the tent and struggled to get it secure. By the time I got the thing in place I was soaked. I didn't even bother staking it in and just left the side flaps hanging down on the tent. I jumped back into the tent and started to dry off. The water from my shorts created a puddle at the end of my tent. I was on a gentle slope so the water drained to the foot of the tent. I toweled off and crawled back into my sleeping bag. The rain was pounding the tent and now I had sand all over the place inside so not the best sleep I've had in the tent in a while. The rain did stop after about an hour or so and I was able to get back to sleep.

The next morning I woke up and it was sunny with clear skies. I was really happy to see that. I coked up some breakfast and talked with the neighboring campers a bit. They weren't so lucky with the rain. They said they had been camping for 4 days and had the rainfly on every night. There has been no rain lately and the weather has been super hot so they decided the last night they would take the fly off and enjoy a cooler nights sleep. Unfortunately that didn't work out. He said they basically got soaked. I guess spending so much on my tent was good for situations like this. I can get my tent up and secure in no time flat. Their tent was a little more complicated and he said it took a bit to get the rainfly on and by the time they did everything was a mess. Sucks but they had good spirits about it. That's part of the fun of camping right?

After breakfast I headed out find the kite shops and see if the wind was blowing. At the campground it was basically nothing so I wasn't expecting to find much. Since I didn't know where anything was I just drove north toward the town of Waves and planned on just looking around for the kite shops, especially Real Kiteboarding. I found the Real shop pretty easily right up the road from Frisco in Buxton. I went in and talked to a guy working the desk named Dave. He gave me a map of all the riding spots on the islands so that was cool. After grabbing some stickers and a shirt I headed out to find the spots. Not 5 miles out of town I saw a kite up on the sound side. The wind was blowing SW so most the riding would be on the sound side or south of Frisco on the ocean side. I pulled in and found out I was at Kite Point. A few guys were there and said the wind was OK in the early morning and had been dead the rest of the day. One guy was messing around with a 16m C kite and seemed to have a little power. He was just learning so not riding. I figured what the hell, I didn't come to Hatteras to drink beer on the beach, I can do that at home, so I pumped up my 16m and tried to get on the water. Unfortunately the wind just wasn't enough. It was more onshore than it was on the water so my kite would fly but I couldn't even get plained out. After giving it my best effort I gave up on that idea and landed the kite. Had a beer and a snack and decided I didn't feel like sticking around just standing on the beach, instead I figured I'd look at the other spots and find the other shops.

I hated to fully deflate my kite since I figured if it picked up I would probably be on my 16m later in the day. I wanted to leave the struts inflated but there is no way my 16m will fit in my car with the struts inflated. I decided I would try strapping it on the top. I have the new awesome rack so I figured it would work. I wasn't going to be driving that far or that fast so I figured it would be safe up there for the day. I rolled it up as tight as possible, put it in the bag, grabbed some bungee cables and tossed it up on the rack. I secured a few of the bag straps around the bars just incase the bungees broke or something. It worked great! And looked pretty damn cool too! Got a few pictures so I'll try to get them up soon.

I drove on north and checked out the other spots up the road. There are two spots that are supposed to have better wind further up from Buxton but you need 4wd to get to one of them. No problem with the Jeep! The spots are called First Turnout and Second Turnout. These spots definitely would have better wind on a SW but the parking and rigging areas were pretty small. Good spot to put in for a downwinder though.

I kept driving north and came across a few more kiteshops. I found the local Cabrinha and North dealer, Cape Air. Since that's what I fly I of course had to stop. The guys were pretty cool there and I got involved in a conversation with a guy from Canada who was trying to decide on wether or not to buy a 10m North Rebel. Since I have a 9m 08 and a 12m 07 my input was welcome. :) I did realize something after the conversation. For the NE area I kind of have the wrong setup. I think I would be happier with a 7, 10, 14m setup instead of my 9, 12, 16m. Next year I'm looking at getting a 14m kite so I may start to transition my way toward that quiver in the next few years. Before leaving I got a number from one of the guys that said he had the day off on Tuesday and would be out riding. The wind is supposed to be up so it should be a good day. I wouldn't mind getting in on a few downwinders while I'm here so I'll definitely get in touch. :)

I continued north to Waves so I could checkout the big Real shop and training center. The one I went to was the original shop which is just the small one. They have a new crazy big store at the slider park. I easily found the shop. Huge metal building with Red beams and Real flags everywhere, kind of hard to miss. The shop was definitely big and they had a ton of wave boards upstairs. I have to say though the new Air and Earth shop in Charleston, SC is a much cooler shop. The Real shop is big but seems kind of empty. They seem to have more clothes than they do kites, maybe not but just looked that way. I was happy to see they had Chucktown shirts though! Chucktown is the the new clothing line Davey Blair started. I had to get a shirt! His stuff is simple, Green shirt with Green letters simply stating Chucktown 843 (the area code).

After the Real shop I headed back south. On the drive it looked like the flags were flying a bit more, maybe the wind had picked up. I drove back south to the turnouts and saw one kite in the second one. I pulled into the first one and no one was there but I checked the wind and it still seemed like, only around 12. I drove back to the second one and somehow the wind there was blowing. I got a reading of 20 at the water and it was holding steady at 17. This was awesome considering the predictions weren't calling for much for the rest of the day. The other guy there was on a 12m and had about 30 pounds on me and was fully powered. This meant the 16m was going to be too much. Oh well, just have to pump up the 12m.

I got pumped up and luckily the guys wife knew the basics of how to launch. I could self launch but the spot is really small with not much room for error. I got out on the water ad was happy to find there was plenty of wind. I was totally powered. The spot is shallow so the water is pretty flat. I was able to throw some good jumps and work on some new grabs. Because of my knee and leg issues I'm still not doing back rolls yet but I'm comfortable doing front rolls. I started working on doing my front rolls with an indy grab instead of a lean. The difference between the grabs is this. The Lean air is where you grab the heel side of the board just behind your back foot. What I typically do is pull my legs up behind me and tweak the board out as much as possible. I try to get the grab before I get inverted so I can really torque my body through the rotation. it feels really cool and I hope looks good. The Indy grab is where you grab the toe side of the board with your back hand between your toes. This grab lets you tuck your knees in real tight which causes your spin to be faster. With my knee a bit goofed up it's a little hard to pull the board all the way in but I was able to get a few solid grabs in.

In addition to the grabs I started working on getting my rolls more inverted. I did a front roll my opposite direction and in the middle of it I pushed my feet straight to the sky. I realized what I actually did was pause the rotation for a bit and just hung there upside down. It was an awesome feeling and I'm sure looked good. Funny that I did this first on my switch direction. I started throwing a few more on my natural direction and was able to really float it upside down for a while! I can't wait to get some pictures or video of this to see how it looks. Once my knee stops hurting I'm going to work on boning out the board while upside down. Also take off one hand just for style. :)

I took a break from riding and hit the beach to catch my breath and saw the girl that launched my kite was taking pictures. She had a nice digital SLR with a good lens. She said she got some good sequences of me. I realized after I went out again I should just get the pictures when I got back in instead of having her email them. I bought the multicard reader so I figured I'd be able to read whatever memory card her camera used. Sure enough it worked great! So now I finally have some pictures of me jumping!!! I realized the jumps weren't really high but my grabs looked good. I'll try to get them online soon. Really happy I finally got some pics of me on the water for the trip. Doesn't make up for the lost pictures from St. Pete but sure as hell helps.

After riding for a bit I called it a day. The sun was going down and I wanted to figure out dinner before it got too late. The island shuts down pretty early so all I was able to find with more than 2 cars in the parking lot was a bar & grill called the Sandbar. It had an interesting crowd of locals and tourists. It was karaoke night so that was entertaining to say the least. Holy Crap some people just can't sing. Especially this dude that chose to call himself 'Rockin Ray'. I couldn't tell if he was just absolutely hammered of just an absolute retard. Either way he sang like an idiot and just about drove everyone nuts. Luckily he only sang like 12 times that night! Whatever, I guess he was having fun. And must not of noticed everyone laughing at him.

Well, that's it for the full day one in Hatteras. Winds are predicted to be 20 plus all day on Tuesday so should be a good day of riding. :)

Cheers,<br>
Kyle
