# Kite the Coast - Kiteboarding Dauphin Island, AL : May 2008
### Journal Entry from Dauphin Island, AL. Private golf course kite launch plus kitesurfing with dolphins! Plus tales of sharks from the locals!!

*<div class="article-meta-data"> by <span class="article-meta-author" itemprop="author"><a href="https://twitter.com/kfinley" target="_blank" title="kfinley on Twitter">Kyle Finley</a></span> Published: <time itemprop="pubdate" datetime="5/21/2008 5:00:00 AM">Wednesday, May 21, 2008</time></div>*

---

Today I drove out of Gulfport, MS on my way to Alabama. I was told by several of the guys at the beach in Gulfport that the best spot to hit would be Dauphin Island. I had originally planned on going to Gulf Shores but was cool with whatever the locals said I should do. They said if the wind was good kiters would be out. The forecast was calling for light wind in the morning and picking up by late afternoon to close to 20. That worked for me because it gave me time to do some much needed laundry at the campsite.

Dauphin Island is located on the west mouth of the Mobile Bay on the west side. The drive there is nice and scenic. Once you get to the island there isn't much there except a main road running parallel to the beach. There were a few resorts along the beach and then it turned into all residential. The houses along the shore are all built up on pylons in case a heavy storm surge hits. It actually looks pretty cool to see all these houses just perched up 15 feet in the air with usually nothing underneath them but support posts. I drove the road until it wouldn't go any further looking for kites in the air. The wind seemed to be blowing based on the flags whipping around but I could tell it was on the lighter side. At this point it was only about 3 o'clock so I figured the wind just hadn't kicked in yet. Before driving back down the island I decided I'd try to call one of the guys I met at the beach the day before. Tom, who runs a local kite shop in Gulfport, said if I needed anything to call so I did. :) He told me where the launches were and that I should be able to see kites from the road for one of them but would have to drive to the other to see anyone.

The 2 areas are basically in the same place and can be accessed two different ways. There is a public beach near a school there the open gulf hits the shore. Right at the beach is a sandy island / peninsula type thing that sticks out for almost a mile or so. On the other side of that is a large bay. The bay is always super flat because the water is shielded by the island. Luckily it's small enough that it doesn't obscure the wind. Tom said I should hit the bay and if no one was there then just kite it anyways.

To get to the bay there are two options. First you can park in the public beach lot and walk there, which is a bit of a hike. Or the other way is to drive to the golf course and walk past the pro shop out to the beach. I thought this sounded sketchy but once I got there it seems to be a common thing. There's a walkway going out to the beach and no one seemed to care.

Once I got to the bay I could tell it would be sick on a nukin day. Unfortunately the wind was pretty light today but enough to ride. I rode my 16m on its lightest wind setting and had a hard time going upwind but I was able to do a few front rolls and even back rolls. My back rolls even felt good. They weren't super powered but i was making it around and landing them solid. I think the back rolls are easier on my big kite because I don't oversteer it as much. My Crossbow turns so slow it's hard to oversteer it, especially in light wind.

When you hear someone say Dauphin Island you may think they're saying "Dolphin Island" but you'd be wrong. But don't worry there are dolphins here and I got to see some up close and personal while there. I had a few dolphins popping out of the water in the bay while I was riding. One time I came within 20 yards of two arching out of the water right in front of me! That was pretty cool. I was hoping they would swim along with me when I passed them but no luck. I looked down to see if I would see them, and make sure I didn't hit them, but the water is pretty murky so I didn't see anything. Still pretty cool though.

After a bit of riding and trying to throw some jumps to impress a group of folks hanging out in the water I decided it was time to get on the road. I didn't know what time it was but figured it was probably getting close to 6. The last ferry is at 6:30 so I didn't want to miss it. I wasn't sure how long the ferry took but since i've never taken one and the drive around the bay would probably take close to two hours I definitely wanted to be on it.

The ferry ride was pretty cool. i got a picture of my Jeep on the boat so now it has gotten to ride on some water during the trip as well. :) Everyone was hanging out of their cars on the ride, which was about 30 min. I noticed the truck behind me had a few surfboards in it so i started talking to the guys. They were both local Alabama guys that were out surfing. It's funny, I never thought of people in Alabama surfing when I was growing up. The guys said they can get swells 3 to 5 feet on a good day, not sure how often those come though. They said they were just getting back into surfing after a few years of laying out of it. They were talking about a few really big sharks that got pulled out near the shore. one was 1000 pounds and the other was 900 pounds. That kind of spooked them a bit and got them out of the water for a while. One of the guys said twice he had head butted a shark while diving through a wave! He said they were little baby sharks but still he took their nose right to his head. That's nuts!

Once the ferry unloaded I headed in to Gulf Shores hoping the state park would have an open tent site. I got there and they did so I had a place to sleep for the night and a shower. :)

So overall my thought of Dauphin Island is that it's pretty cool. The beach is great, the sand is great, and of course the southern girls don't look too bad either. :) The spot is really good and offers up both small wave riding and flat water at the same time. There are few places I know that are like that. The bay would also be great for beginners because it is relatively shallow near the beach and the wind direction will always blow you back to the beach somewhere since it's a pretty circular bay. The only negative is that the beach is pretty small on the bay side. Self launching and landing is a little tricky so having someone out would definitely help.

Tomorrow I'll pass through Gulf Shores on my way to the Florida panhandle. If the wind is good I'm going to ride somewhere around Pensacola or Fort Walton. I'll have to call the guys at XLKites to see where it's going off for the day.

<div style="text-indent: 0;">
Cheers,<br>
Kyle
</div>
