# Taking a Bit of a Break From Work

#### I decided to take a 4 Month Leave of Absence so I could Travel, Snowboard, Kiteboard, Camp, Photo, and explore the US coast along the Gulf and East coast.

_<div class="article-meta-data"> by <span class="article-meta-author" itemprop="author">Kyle Finley</span> Published: <time itemprop="pubdate" datetime="2/26/2008 6:00:00 AM">Tuesday, February 26, 2008</time></div>_

---

Some of you may know about this and some of you may not. I've decided to take a leave of absence from work for a while. I'm taking 15 weeks off from work to do a bit of traveling. Over the last few years I really haven't taken a proper vacation so I guess you could say I'm making up for that now. :)

I've been planning this for a while and the details have changed as the trip has gotten closer but here are the details of what I'm planning to do with my time off.

Once I leave Boston I'm driving to Chicago to hang out for a few days and catch up with some people I haven't seen in a while. After I leave Chicago I'm driving on to Colorado. I've found a room to rent from an awesome couple in [Dillon](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&geocode=&q=swan+mountain+rd.+dillon,+CO&sll=37.0625,-95.677068&sspn=41.411029,64.599609&ie=UTF8&ll=39.60115,-106.01956&spn=0.039481,0.063086&t=h&z=14). If you don't know Colorado Dillon is between Breckenridge and Keystone. My time in Dillon will be spent Kiteboarding on Dillon Reservoir (snow not water). There are 7 major ski resorts within an hour drive of Dillon so I also plan to do a bit of snowboarding while I'm there. Since I have no pass for the resorts I'm going to pick up a part time job in order to get a pass for the mountains. My first choice is to teach snowboarding but I may have to take something else. I'd also like to do some fly fishing while I'm in the mountains. I never made it up to the high country to fly fish when I lived here so I'd like to make up for that. If time and budget allows I'd like make a trip to [Skyline, UT](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&q=Skyline+Dr,+Utah,+United+States&sll=39.32391,-79.12863&sspn=0.00991,0.015771&ie=UTF8&cd=2&geocode=0,39.328900,-111.448230&ll=39.854938,-111.533203&spn=1.258728,2.018738&z=9) to kite. Skyline is about an hour south of Salt Lake and is basically high country snow fields that are well known for kiteboarding. It's only about hours from Dillon so I might as well make the trip since I'm so close. I should be in Dillon for about 6 weeks.

After I leave Colorado I'm driving down to Little Rock. I'm going to stop in Fayetteville along the way to catch up with all the old crew that live around there. I should get to Little Rock around the 20th of April. On the 22nd I fly out of Little Rock to [St. Lucia](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&hl=en&geocode=&q=st.+lucia&ie=UTF8&t=h&z=10). I'll be staying in St. Lucia for 2 weeks. While I'm there the plan is to Kiteboard as much as possible. :) I'm staying on the beach in a hut next to the local Kite Shop, The Reef. I just can't wait to be in warm water every day. :)

When I get back from St. Lucia I'm headed down to Corpus Christi, TX to the [U.S. Wind and Water Open](http://www.uswindandwateropen.com/). The Open is a Kiteboard competition that has a few different events. I went last year as a spectator and plan on competing this year. Hopefully this year we will have wind and an actual competition. There are few different events held. I'm planning on competing in the course race. It's similar to sailboat racing combined with [boardercross](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snowboard_Cross). They setup a figure eight course where the kiters race and have to make their way through obstacles either jumping over them or going around them. I don't expect to place in the top 3 but I at least want to be a part of it.

The last leg of my trip is the part I'm most excited about. I came up with this idea a few months ago and think it's something very few people have the chance to do. Instead of making a direct route back to Boston from South Texas, which would be a very boring and long drive, I'm going to drive around the coast back home. My plan is to first drive down to South Padre Island (I've heard it's amazing there) from there I'll drive around the coast to Tampa, FL. At that point I'll hop over to the Atlantic side of the state and start my way up the Atlantic Coast. I plan on kiteboarding every state from Texas to Maine. I'm going to pack my Jeep with camping gear and stay at camp grounds most the time. When I don't want to camp or just want a real bed I'll use my Hilton points to get a free room. :) I've got about 3 weeks scheduled for the trip. Not sure if I can hit every state but it will be an interesting adventure. For those of you that live along the coast expect a visit, yeah that means you Uncle Dennis. ;) If I can hit every state along the way that will be 18 states (I plan on kiting the Chesapeake so that includes Maryland).

My trip should land me back in the Northeast around the end of May. I should be back at work around the first of June. I know it may seem like a crazy idea but I think it will be well worth the time and investment. If anyone has any advice on things to check out along the way let me know. I plan on using this blog to keep people updated with my trip. I also have a photo album that I will try to post pictures to as often as I can.

Well, that's my crazy trip. We'll see how it turns out. :)

Cheers,<br>
Kyle
