# Why I Built a Custom Site
#### Should you build a custom site or use a packaged system like WordPress or Drupal? Details on why I custom built my website and why you should too!

*<div class="article-meta-data"> by <span class="article-meta-author" itemprop="author"><a href="https://twitter.com/kfinley" target="_blank" title="kfinley on Twitter">Kyle Finley</a></span> Published: <time itemprop="pubdate" datetime="7/1/2014 12:50:53 AM">Monday, June 30, 2014</time></div>*

---

Over the last week or so I’ve rebuilding this site from scratch and wanted to write up a little details on why I decided to do this. I’ve had this website up for almost 10 years now and haven’t focused on creating content as much as I should, I hope to change that going forward by publishing at least one post a week. Historically this site was my personal blog that related primarily to software development and related topics. I’ll continue posting topics on software development best practices but since my work has moved beyond simply architecting systems and writing code I’ll be posting on other topics related to Inbound Marketing, Growth Hacking, Social Media marketing, Search Engine Optimization (SEO) best practices, Photography, Kiteboarding, Music, Travel, and Food & Cocktails. This could be seen as a bit of a mixed bag but these are my interests and this website is my outlet to share my thoughts and opinions. Please feel fee to comment and share any of the content. These posts aren’t just for me and I hope others get some value out of what I’ve learned and my opinions I've shared with the world.

## Build or buy?
A question I often get is “Why would you build a custom site when there are so many options out there?” This is a good and valid question. I plan on writing a future post that talks more about this in relation to E-Commerce and business websites but to answer the question for a personal site I’d have to say it really depends on the situation. If you’re not a developer and you want a personal website I wouldn’t recommend it. Go ahead and use WordPress or some other packaged site and you’ll be up and running and writing content quickly. If you’re starting out with writing software I’d say give it a shot! It’s a great way to jump in and start learning how to build a website with minimal risk. If you are a developer I’d say you should definitely build a custom site. Of course the argument is it takes time away from doing other things but if you’re passionate about creating systems you will enjoy it. Also it shows that you not only just talk the talk but you walk the walk too. I’ve been through a number of companies and hired my share of people and can say that a developer with his / her own custom built site will always stand out above ones that use a canned system instead. Also many companies are asking for code samples these days so it gives you a body of code that you can share with them without worrying about IP issues for showing former employers code.

## Why I Built a Custom Site
So why did I decide to build a custom site? When I started this site I did use a package system, Community Server, which was popular at the time. But since I didn't focus heavily on maintaining the site it became several versions old and I wanted to do things I couldn't do out of the box and didn't want to learn how to customize a system that wasn't relevant to anything I did with work. Besides that I have several reasons for building a custom site which include:

* I’m a Software Developer so it gives me a playground to try out new things and build my architecture as I want without compromising on using someone else’s system
* I’m a Search & Social Media Optimization specialist and I’ve built in technical SEO best practices into the system in order to show that I practice what I preach
* I’m working on a future area of the site that will feature my photography. This area will also be for people to login so they can review and download photos I’ve taken of them and also schedule photo shoots
* Lastly it’s always fun to work on a [greenfield project](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greenfield_project) and control every aspect of it

## What's the site built in?
For those that are curious the site (when this article was built and published in 2014 then decommissioned in 2022) was built using [ASP.NET MVC 5](http://www.asp.net/mvc/mvc5) and C#. Using [Bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com/) for handling responsive UI design and [jQuery](http://jquery.com/) for JavaScript. For the datastore I’m using SQL Server 2012 but plan on moving to [MongoDb](http://www.mongodb.org/) I’m currently using ShareThis for social sharing widgets combined with custom code to generate UTM Campaign Tracked short URLs using the goo.gl url shortener API. Everything else on the site I’ve written custom and will most likely be writing articles talking about different pieces and sharing the code for others to use if they’d like.

## That's it.. But more to come!
That about covers why I’ve built this new site. I look forward to working on it more and since it is of course a side project there may be bugs here and there so if you notice any please feel free to let me know. If you have any questions about how I’ve built anything also feel free to ask. The easiest way to reach me is through Twitter at [@kfinley](https://twitter.com/kfinley).
